add release notes v9.0.0 - bugfix part (#21033)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-9.0.0.md

| TiKV | [`storage.max-ts.max-drift`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-drift-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Specifies the maximum time by which the timestamp of a read or write request can exceed the PD TSO cached in TiKV. The default value is `"60s"`. |
| TiFlash | [`hashagg_use_magic_hash`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#hashagg_use_magic_hash-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the hash function TiFlash uses for aggregation. |
| TiFlash| [`format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version) | Modified | Changes the default value from `7` to `8`, which means the default DTFile file format for v9.0.0 or a later version is `8`. This new format supports a new string serialization scheme that improves string read and write performance. |

> | TiCDC | [`newarch`](/ticdc/ticdc-server-config.md#newarch) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the [TiCDC new architecture](/ticdc/ticdc-new-arch.md). By default, `newarch` is not specified, indicating that the old architecture is used. `newarch` applies only to the new architecture. If `newarch` is added to the configuration file of the TiCDC old architecture, it might cause parsing failures. |

Author: ```suggestion
<!--
| TiCDC | [`newarch`](/ticdc/ticdc-server-config.md#newarch) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the [TiCDC new architecture](/ticdc/ticdc-new-arch.md). By default, `newarch` is not specified, indicating that the old architecture is used. `newarch` applies only to the new architecture. If `newarch` is added to the configuration file of the TiCDC old architecture, it might cause parsing failures. |
-->
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup): release-8.5.1.md > Improvements> TiDB - Support folding read-only user-defined variables into constants [#52742](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52742) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - (dup): release-8.5.1.md > Improvements> TiDB - Adjust the default threshold of statistics memory cache to 20% of the total memory [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > Improvements> TiDB - Limit the execution of GC for TTL tables and related statistics collection tasks to the owner node, thereby reducing overhead [#59357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59357) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - (dup): release-8.5.1.md > Improvements> TiDB - Adjust the default threshold of statistics memory cache to 20% of the total memory [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that adding a unique index with global sorting might fail [#59725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59725) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` statement does not display the row count correctly [#59897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59897) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that an error might occur when using `IMPORT INTO ... FROM SELECT` to import data into TiFlash [#58443](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58443) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Fix the issue that `IMPORT INTO ... FROM SELECT` does not convert negative numbers correctly [#58613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58613) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Fix the issue that logs do not display node information when some TiDB nodes do not synchronize the schema version [#58480](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58480) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - Fix the potential issue that multiple views with the same name could be created [#58769](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58769) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that the duration is not collected when statistics collection fails [#58797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58797) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)    
    - Fix the issue that asynchronously loaded statistics might contain more information than the current synchronously loaded statistics [#59107](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59107)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)   
    - Fix the issue that `UNION ALL` statements do not return an error when `sql_mode=only_full_group_by` is set [#59211](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59211) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) 
    - Fix the issue that internal sessions used for statistics might not be released properly when errors occur, which might lead to memory leaks [#59524](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59524) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - Fix the issue that statistics estimation is incorrect when the value of `column.hist.NDV` is greater than that of `column.topN.num()` [#59563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59563) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

>     - Fix the issue that merging global statistics fails [#59274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59274)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - Fix the issue that a TiDB session might crash when Fix Control #44855 is enabled [#59762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59762) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - Fix the issue that TiDB chooses Merge Join when there is no hint and the join keys do not exactly match [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that merging global statistics fails [#59274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59274) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that a TiDB session might crash when Fix Control #44855 is enabled [#59762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59762) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB chooses Merge Join when there is no hint and the join keys do not exactly match [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture might print a large number of `tag=EnumParseOverflowContainer` logs [#9955](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9955) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@lilin90: 8 notes-->

        - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复使用 `br log status --json` 查询日志备份任务时，返回结果中缺少任务状态 `status` 字段的问题 [#57959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57959) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 PITR 无法恢复大于 3072 字节的索引的问题 [#58430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58430) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 BR 向 TiKV 发送请求时收到 `rpcClient is idle` 错误导致恢复失败的问题 [#58845](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58845) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份在无法访问 PD 时，遇到致命错误无法正确退出的问题 [#18087](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18087) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - Fix the issue that available space on storage nodes is unnecessarily rechecked during breakpoint recovery [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316)(https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that available space on storage nodes is unnecessarily rechecked during breakpoint recovery [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@hfxsd: 28 notes-->

    - (dup): release-8.5.1.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 支持将只读的用户自定义变量折叠为常量 [#52742](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52742) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - (dup): release-8.5.1.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 将统计信息内存缓存的默认阈值调整为总内存的 20% [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 将 TTL 表的 GC 及相关统计信息收集任务限定在 owner 节点执行，从而降低开销 [#59357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59357) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - (dup): release-8.5.1.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 将统计信息内存缓存的默认阈值调整为总内存的 20% [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Optimize the CPU usage of internal SQL statements for the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) [#59344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59344) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Add more spill-related details to the result of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#59076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59076) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - Support pushing down the `FROM_UNIXTIME()` expression to TiKV [#58940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58940) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - Support pushing down the `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` expression to TiKV [#59365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59365) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
>     - Support pushing down the `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()` expression to TiKV [#59497](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59497) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
>     - Support pushing down the `TRUNCATE()` expression to TiFlash [#59317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59317) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - Support pushing down the Aggregation window function to TiFlash [#59509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59509) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Support Left Outer Anti Semi Join in Hash Join v2 [#58479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/58479) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Skip the lock cleanup phase for optimistic statements that are automatically committed to improve performance [#58675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58675) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

>     - Support creating global indexes using non-unique indexes [#58650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58650) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Optimize the cleanup mechanism of residual data to mitigate the impact on request latency [#18107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18107) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - Optimize the warmup mechanism for TiKV MVCC in-memory engine (IME) when transferring the Leader to reduce the impact on Coprocessor request latency during the transfer [#17782](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17782) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Optimize the automatic eviction mechanism for TiKV MVCC in-memory engine (IME) to reduce the impact on Coprocessor request latency [#18130](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18130) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Throttle BR log restore requests when TiKV memory usage is high to prevent TiKV OOM [#18124](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18124) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

+ PD <!--tw@lilin90: 5 notes-->

>     - 设置 max-replicas 小于当前副本数时打印警告信息 [#8959](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8959) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 增加了 `gRPC Received commands rate` 监控面板 [#8920](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8920) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
>     - Slow store 调度器支持设置 `batch` 大小 [#7156](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7156) @[rleungx]
> (https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 为更新 TSO 增加了重试机制 [#9020](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9020) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 资源管控支持更多 BURSTABLE 模式 [#9057](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9057) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support printing a warning when `max-replicas` is set lower than the current number of replicas [#8959](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8959) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Add a new `gRPC Received commands rate` monitoring panel [#8920](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8920) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Support configuring the `batch` size for `evict-slow-store-scheduler` [#7156](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7156) @[rleungx]
(https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Add a retry mechanism for `UpdateTSO` [#9020](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9020) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Resource control now supports `UNLIMITED`, `MODERATED`, and `OFF` modes for `BURSTABLE` [#9057](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9057) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
```

    - Introduce [HashJoinV2](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md#hashjoinv2) to improve the performance of some inner join scenarios [#9060](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9060) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

+ Tools
    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai: 9 notes-->

        - Include error information returned by TiKV nodes in full backup logs to facilitate troubleshooting [#58666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58666) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Optimize the structure and content of backup and restore summary logs [#56493](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56493) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Update the list of unrecoverable system tables [#52530](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52530) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Improve the index restore speed during PITR by repairing indexes concurrently [#59158](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59158) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - Support ignoring specific locks during backup scanning to improve backup efficiency [#53224](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53224) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Support ignoring specific locks during backup scanning to improve backup efficiency [#53224](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53224) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Remove the check on AWS region names to avoid backup errors caused by newly supported AWS regions failing the validation [#18159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18159) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

        <!-- - Add `tableId` and `partitionId` fields to the TiDB extended fields for the Canal-JSON protocol [#11874](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11874) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)--> <!-- for-beta.2 -->

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw@lilin90: 1 note-->

        - (dup): release-6.6.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - 新增 async/batch relay writer 以优化 relay 性能 [#4287](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4287) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - 为 dm 添加多安全配置的支持 [#11831](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11831) @[River2000i](https://github.com/River2000i)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 在解析 CSV 文件时，新增行宽检查以防止 OOM 问题 [#58590](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58590) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>        

Author: ```suggestion
    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Remove the check on AWS region names to avoid backup errors caused by newly supported AWS regions failing the validation [#18159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18159) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

>     + Backup & Restore (BR)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>         - Remove the check on AWS region names to avoid backup errors caused by newly supported AWS regions failing the validation [#18159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18159) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复在导入或添加索引场景中，因 PD 网络不稳定可能导致操作失败的问题 [#8962](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8962) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复重启后 `flow-round-by-digit` 配置项的值可能被覆盖的问题 [#8980](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8980) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 TSO 分配过程中可能出现的内存泄漏问题 [#9004](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9004) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复单个日志文件 `max-size` 默认值未被正确设置的问题 [#9037](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9037) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复长期运行的集群中可能出现的内存泄漏问题 [#9047](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9047) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复当某个 PD 节点不是 Leader 时，仍可能生成 TSO 的问题 [#9051](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9051) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 PD Leader 切换过程中，Region syncer 未能及时退出的问题 [#9017](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9017) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - 修复 `minResolvedTS` 没有初始化导致的 panic 问题 [#8964](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8964) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复 pd client 重试策略没有正确初始化的问题 [#9013](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9013) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复通过 API 查询不存在的 Region 时的报错信息 [#8868](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8868) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复 ping API 被错误转发的问题 [#9031](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9031) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复 TTL cache goroutine 泄露的问题 [#9047](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9047) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
>     - 修复微服务模式下转发 TSO 可能导致 panic 的问题 [#9091](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9091) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复因为 PD 网络问题可能导致 TSO client 没有初始化的问题 [#58239](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58239) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that uninitialized `minResolvedTS` causes TiDB to panic [#8964](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8964) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that the PD client retry policy is not properly initialized [#9013](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9013) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that an incorrect error message is returned when querying a non-existent Region via API [#8868](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8868) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that the ping API is incorrectly forwarded [#9031](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9031) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that TTL cache goroutines might leak [#9047](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9047) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that forwarding TSO requests in microservice mode might cause TiDB to panic [#9091](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9091) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that network problems in PD might prevent the TSO client from initializing [#58239](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58239) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在导入大量数据后，TiFlash 可能持续占用较高内存的问题 [#9812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9812) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在存算分离架构下，TiFlash 计算节点可能被错误选为添加 Region peer 的目标节点的问题 [#9750](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9750) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在某些情况下 TiFlash 意外退出时无法打印错误堆栈的问题 [#9902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9902) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复当 `profiles.default.init_thread_count_scale` 设置为 `0` 时，TiFlash 启动可能会卡住的问题 [#9906](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9906) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在查询涉及虚拟列并且触发远程读时，可能会出现 `Not found column` 错误的问题 [#9561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9561) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash might not clean up some disk data in time after inserting data into a table with vector indexes, leading to abnormal disk space usage [#9946](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9946) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, TiFlash might print a large number of `tag=EnumParseOverflowContainer` logs [#9955](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9955) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@lilin90: 8 notes-->

        - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复使用 `br log status --json` 查询日志备份任务时，返回结果中缺少任务状态 `status` 字段的问题 [#57959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57959) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 PITR 无法恢复大于 3072 字节的索引的问题 [#58430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58430) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-6.5.12.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 BR 向 TiKV 发送请求时收到 `rpcClient is idle` 错误导致恢复失败的问题 [#58845](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58845) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - (dup): release-7.5.6.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份在无法访问 PD 时，遇到致命错误无法正确退出的问题 [#18087](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18087) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - 修复在断点恢复时额外检查存储节点可用空间的问题 [#54316](https://github.com/Leavrth))[)](https://github.com/Leavrth))
>         - 修复全量备份过程中 RangeTree 存储结果内存效率问题 [#58587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58587) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 修复没等待 info schema 加载结束后，就执行 pitr 后期的 sql 操作导致的问题 [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复对 region 白名单检查的问题 [#18159](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18159) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 修复一个和 gc safepoint 相关的测试用例 [#59604](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59604) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
>         - 修复一个解析外部存储 url 的问题 [#59548](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59548) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复一个恢复过程中 table id 预分配的问题  [#59718](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59718) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
>         - 修复一个单元测试用例 [#59925](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59925) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)        

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that available space on storage nodes is unnecessarily rechecked during breakpoint recovery [#54316](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54316)(https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that RangeTree results consume memory inefficiently during full backup [#58587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58587) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might return the `Information schema is out of date` error when there are a large number of tables in the cluster but the actual data size is small [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)
        - Fix the issue that parsing the external storage URL causes incorrect backends [#59548](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59548) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that table ID pre-allocation is incorrect during the restore process [#59718](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59718) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 修复单元测试用例 [#59925](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59925) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)     
        - 修复和 gc safepoint 相关的测试用例 [#59604](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59604) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)    
```

    - 在 explain analyze 结果中支持更多 spill 的细节信息 [#59076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59076) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 支持 truncate 表达式下推 TiFlash [#59317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59317) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - 支持 unix_timestamp 表达式下推 TiKV [#59497](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59497) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 支持 aggregation window function 下推 TiFlash [#59509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59509) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 在 hash join v2 中支持 left outer anti semi join [#58479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/58479) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 跳过自动提交的乐观语句的清锁阶段以提高性能 [#58675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58675) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
    - 支持使用非唯一索引创建全局索引 [#58650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58650) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - TTL 关闭 `tidb_enable_paging`，以减少扫描行数 [#58342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58342) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - 支持在构建 semi join 和 anti semi join 时候可以选择左侧作为 build 侧 [#58325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58325) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 支持对于形如 a = 1 and (b = 2 or c = 3 or d = 4) 的查询条件，TiDB 能够生成使用 (a,b), (a,c), (a,d) 的 IndexMerge 计划，用户不再需要人工展开表达式 [#58361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58361) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - 支持由 IN 子查询而来的 semi join 使用 semi_join_rewrite 的 hint [#58829](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58829) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 纠正收集统计信息失败时同步的耗时 [#58797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58797) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复在用户创建不合法的 binding 的时候报错 [#51347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51347) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 修复自动删除由 OR 连接的过滤条件中的冗余表达式 [#58998](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58998) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - 修复异步统计信息加载时候可能会加载比当前同步加载更多的 item [#59107](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59107)@[winoros]([https://github.com/winoros)
>     - 修复在新 new-only-full-group 打开的情况下 union-all 语句不报错的问题 [#59211](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59211) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - 修复统计信息在使用的内部会话在遇到错误时可能没有被释放的问题，该问题可能导致内存泄漏  [#59524](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59524) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - 修复当 column hist ndv 大于 column topn num 时的统计信息评估错误的问题 [#59563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59563) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复了合并全局统计信息时候的 bucket 顺序 [#59274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59274)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复当 fixcontrol#44855 开启时，TiDB 的会话可能执行崩溃的问题 [#59762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59762) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - 修复了只有在 hint 或者 join key 完全匹配的情况下才会选择 merge join [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that some gRPC clients cannot connect to the TiDB server status API [#59093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59093) @[iosmanthus](https://github.com/iosmanthus)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB panics and file leaks occur when using cursors [#59976](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59976) [#59963](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59963) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the `json_search` function does not return `NULL` when the search path is `NULL` during vectorized execution [#59463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59463) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that slow logs cannot be parsed correctly when database or table names contain colons (`:`) [#39940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39940) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the `MOD()` function does not support expressions as parameters [#59000](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59000) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!--tw@hfxsd: the following 12 notes-->
    - 修复启用 `tidb_enable_dist_task` 导致 TiDB 升级失败的问题 [#54061](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54061) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复创建索引后产生写热点的问题，支持在创建索引前预先划分 Region [#57551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57551) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复在大量表的场景下重启 TiDB 时，InfoSchema 加载速度过慢的问题 [#58821](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58821) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - 修复查询 `information_schema.tables` 可能出现 OOM 问题，优化系统表查询过程中的内存使用监控 [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复收集统计信息失败时没有收集耗时的问题 [#58797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58797) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复在异步加载统计信息时，加载的信息可能比当前同步加载的信息多 [#59107](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59107)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)   
    - 修复 `sql_mode=only-full-group_by` 时，`UNION ALL` 语句不报错的问题 [#59211](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59211) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) 
    - 修复统计信息使用的内部会话在遇到错误时可能没有被释放的问题，该问题可能导致内存泄漏 [#59524](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59524) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - 修复当 `column.hist.NDV` 大于 `column.topN.num()` 时，统计信息评估错误的问题 [#59563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59563) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复合并全局统计信息失败的问题 [#59274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59274)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复当 Fix Control #44855 开启时，TiDB 的会话可能崩溃的问题 [#59762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59762) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复只有在 hint 或 Join Key 完全匹配的情况下才会选择 Merge Join 的问题 [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

```

>     - Fix the issue that Merge Join is chosen only when the hint or join keys match exactly [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB chooses Merge Join when there is no hint and the join keys do not exactly match [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

    - Fix the issue that some gRPC clients cannot connect to the TiDB server status API [#59093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59093) @[iosmanthus](https://github.com/iosmanthus)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB panics and file leaks occur when using cursors [#59976](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59976) [#59963](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59963) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the `json_search` function does not return `NULL` when the search path is `NULL` during vectorized execution [#59463](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59463) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that slow logs cannot be parsed correctly when database or table names contain colons (`:`) [#39940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39940) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the `MOD()` function does not support expressions as parameters [#59000](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59000) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
<!--tw@hfxsd: the following 12 notes-->

>     - 修复启用 `tidb_enable_dist_task` 导致 TiDB 升级失败的问题 [#54061](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54061) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复创建索引后产生写热点的问题，支持在创建索引前预先划分 Region [#57551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57551) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复在大量表的场景下重启 TiDB 时，InfoSchema 加载速度过慢的问题 [#58821](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58821) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
>     - 修复查询 `information_schema.tables` 可能出现 OOM 问题，优化系统表查询过程中的内存使用监控 [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复收集统计信息失败时没有收集耗时的问题 [#58797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58797) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 修复在异步加载统计信息时，加载的信息可能比当前同步加载的信息多 [#59107](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59107)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)   
>     - 修复 `sql_mode=only-full-group_by` 时，`UNION ALL` 语句不报错的问题 [#59211](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59211) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) 
>     - 修复统计信息使用的内部会话在遇到错误时可能没有被释放的问题，该问题可能导致内存泄漏 [#59524](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59524) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
>     - 修复当 `column.hist.NDV` 大于 `column.topN.num()` 时，统计信息评估错误的问题 [#59563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59563) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - 修复合并全局统计信息失败的问题 [#59274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59274)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - 修复当 Fix Control #44855 开启时，TiDB 的会话可能崩溃的问题 [#59762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59762) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
>     - 修复只有在 hint 或 Join Key 完全匹配的情况下才会选择 Merge Join 的问题 [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that enabling `tidb_enable_dist_task` causes TiDB upgrade to fail [#54061](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54061) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue of write hotspots after creating indexes by supporting splitting Regions before creating indexes [#57551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57551) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that loading InfoSchema is slow when restarting TiDB in scenarios with a large number of tables [#58821](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58821) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - Fix the potential OOM issue when querying `information_schema.tables` by improving memory usage monitoring when quering system tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the duration is not collected when statistics collection fails [#58797](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58797) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)    
    - Fix the issue that asynchronously loaded statistics might contain more information than the current synchronously loaded statistics [#59107](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59107)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)   
    - Fix the issue that `UNION ALL` statements do not return an error when `sql_mode=only_full_group_by` is set [#59211](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59211) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) 
    - Fix the issue that internal sessions used for statistics might not be released properly when errors occur, which might lead to memory leaks [#59524](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59524) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - Fix the issue that statistics estimation is incorrect when the value of `column.hist.NDV` is greater than that of `column.topN.num()` [#59563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59563) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that merging global statistics fails [#59274](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59274)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that a TiDB session might crash when Fix Control #44855 is enabled [#59762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59762) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that Merge Join is chosen only when the hint or join keys match exactly [#20710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/20710)@[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```
